---
title: 'EMEA: etisalat by e& Standardizes on Red Hat for Greater Innovation, Consistency
  and Scalability Across Hybrid Cloud'
url: https://www.redhat.com/en/about/press-releases/etisalat-by-e-standardizes-on-red-hat-for-greater-innovation-consistency-and-scalability-across-hybrid-cloud
date: '2023-10-10'
author: ntrnolse
feed_url: https://redhat.com/rss.xml
---
EMEA: etisalat by e& Standardizes on Red Hat for Greater Innovation, Consistency and Scalability Across Hybrid Cloud ntrnolse Tue, 10/10/2023 - 14:18 Red Hat, Inc., the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced that etisalat by e&, telecom arm of e& (formerly known as Etisalat Group), has chosen to standardize on Red Hat technologies across its network and IT at cloud scale. etisalat by e& is modernizing its infrastructure and systems onto Red Hat platforms, including Red Hat OpenShift – the industry’s leading hybrid cloud application platform powered by Kubernetes – Red Hat Enterprise Linux , Red Hat OpenStack Platform and Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform . Red Hat is also providing enhanced solution support and training to help etisalat by e& to upskill its staff to take advantage of modern and emerging technologies and workflows including DevOps, containers, automation and AI. etisalat by e&’s goal is to be the leader in providing next-generation digital services for people and homes, while catalyzing large scale digital transformation for organizations and societies. In support of delivering next-generation networks, operational efficiency and excellence in customer experience, etisalat by e& has trusted in Red Hat’s open source software for more than a decade as a foundation for its datacentres and its telco cloud. etisalat by e& is adopting a horizontal platform with Red Hat to set itself up for continued rapid expansion of digital products and services. A driving force for this collaboration is etisalat by e&’s hybrid cloud strategy, which demands the flexibility and freedom to scale workloads across different public and private cloud environments. Red Hat platforms are built for the hybrid cloud and provide: Greater consistency, enhanced security and easier repeatability of how applications are developed, run and managed on any underlying environment whether public cloud, on-premise, hybrid cloud or edge architecture. Workflow automation, quality assurance and lifecycle management , so etisalat by e& teams can focus on innovation over infrastructure. Freedom of choice when building on Red Hat platforms thanks to certified interoperability and integration with a wide range of hardware and software. etisalat by e& is working with Red Hat to take advantage of cloud-native architectures and processes and to improve efficiency of operations. With Red Hat’s experience and expertise in application modernisation, etisalat by e& can re-platform existing workloads onto a modern cloud platform based on Kubernetes, break monolithic applications into microservices and adopt new ways of working, like DevOps and CI/CD to boost software software delivery times. etisalat by e& is also looking to streamline business and IT processes with a holistic approach to automation. With Red Hat Consulting and Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform, etisalat by e& is laying the ground for automated infrastructure with a stronger security footprint that crosses organizational boundaries. Red Hat supports a declarative GitOps software-based approach to automation that can reduce the burden of repetitive, manual tasks on etisalat by e& teams. This promotes faster decision-making, improved control and compliance, and process efficiencies that lead to cost reductions. As well as better managing its own increasing network and IT complexity at scale, having a single, more consistent platform enables etisalat by e& to apply automation at the business application level to improve how it delivers its enterprise offering. Supporting Quotes Darrell Jordan-Smith, senior vice president, Telco, Media & Entertainment and Edge, Red Hat “Emerging technologies like AI, edge computing and advanced software-defined architecture are fueling the evolution of telecom networks and digital services. etisalat by e& is thinking ahead and equipping itself to take advantage of the dynamic cloud landscape by making sure it has the right foundation in place. This organization-wide framework for tapping Red Hat’s latest solutions helps position etisalat by e& to better meet its ambitions as a digital pioneer.” Khalid Murshed, chief technology and information officer, etisalat by e& “At etisalat by e&, we put customer experience at the forefront of everything we do, taking pride in empowering people and the larger community. Red Hat is a strategic partner enabling us to be agile and dynamic to thrive in a multi-cloud future. By giving our teams ongoing access to Red Hat platforms for application development, automation and creative collaboration, we will be able to innovate faster, delivering tangible value to customers in line with our culture and business goals.” etisalat by e& Standardizes on Red Hat for Greater Innovation, Consistency and Scalability Across Hybrid CloudDigital service provider etisalat by e& capitalizes on Red Hat’s consistent, flexible platforms as a scalable foundation for its hybrid cloud future. October 19, 2023 DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Learn about making financial sense of telco cloud Learn how Red Hat underpins etisalat’s telco cloud Learn more about Red Hat Get more news in the Red Hat newsroom Read the Red Hat blog Follow Red Hat on Twitter Join Red Hat on Facebook Watch Red Hat videos on YouTube Follow Red Hat on LinkedIn Digital service provider etisalat by e& capitalizes on Red Hat’s consistent, flexible platforms as a scalable foundation for its hybrid cloud future. Learn how Red Hat underpins etisalat’s telco cloud Learn about making financial sense of telco cloud English *etisalat by e& Standardizes on Red Hat for Greater Innovation, Consistency and Scalability Across Hybrid CloudEnglishAutomation and managementLinuxRed Hat OpenShift Red Hat is a strategic partner enabling us to be agile and dynamic to thrive in a multi-cloud future. Khalid Murshed Chief technology and information officer, etisalat by e& Off Hybrid cloud, telecoms, Linux, OpenShift, Automation, Ansible, 5G, hybrid cloud, Consulting FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this press release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Any forward-looking statement in this press release speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Except as required by law, the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. ### Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, Ansible, Ceph, CloudForms, Gluster and OpenShift are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and other countries. Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other countries. The OpenStack Word Mark is either a registered trademark/service mark or trademark/service mark of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries, and is used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. Red Hat is not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community. ABOUT RED HAT Red Hat is the world’s leading provider of enterprise open source software solutions, using a community-powered approach to deliver reliable and high-performing Linux, hybrid cloud, container, and Kubernetes technologies. Red Hat helps customers integrate new and existing IT applications, develop cloud-native applications, standardize on our industry-leading operating system, and automate, secure, and manage complex environments. Award-winning support, training, and consulting services make Red Hat a trusted adviser to the Fortune 500 . As a strategic partner to cloud providers, system integrators, application vendors, customers, and open source communities, Red Hat can help organizations prepare for the digital future. Service provider consolidates platform strategy on Red Hat technologies including Red Hat OpenShift for cloud-native workloads
