---
title: event | Ask Red Hat Experts Anything on CentOS Linux End Of Life & Migration
  to Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
url: https://www.redhat.com/en/events/webinar/centos-migration-rhel
date: '2023-10-30'
author: kponnusa
feed_url: https://redhat.com/rss.xml
---
event | Ask Red Hat Experts Anything on CentOS Linux End Of Life & Migration to Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) kponnusa Mon, 10/30/2023 - 09:08 With the impending end of life for CentOS Linux ® 7 in June 2024, the clock is ticking for organizations relying on it. But there's a silver lining - this presents an opportunity to redefine your IT strategy. Join our webinar on Nov 30, "Ask Red Hat Experts Anything on CentOS Linux End Of Life & Migration to Red Hat Enterprise Linux," and get clarity on: The state of CentOS Linux and its discontinuation Key benefits of switching to Red Hat Enterprise Linux A seamless transition plan for migrating to Red Hat Enterprise Linux Prepare for the upcoming CentOS Linux end of life, and explore what's possible with RHEL. WHO SHOULD ATTEND? This webinar is ideal for IT decision makers, system administrators, and infrastructure architects with a technical background who have a role to play in migrating from CentOS to a new operating system. Workshop details Date : Nov 30, 2023 Time : 30-45 minutes Location : Virtual via On24 If you have any questions prior to our webinar, please reach out aapramey@redhat.com . Gulshan Prasad Solution Architect, Red Hat APAC Gulshan Prasad is an RHCA IV-Red Hat Certified Solution Architect. He has great interest in Linux and Open Source Technologies. He has trained and provided solutions to customers in 30+ countries. His expertise is providing solutions in Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Red Hat Ansible and Red Hat OpenShift. Shashank Dixit RHEL BU Owner-APAC Shashank Dixit is the Asia Pacific Geography Business Owner for the Red Hat Enterprise Linux Business Unit, responsible for delivering product and business unit strategies for the Red Hat Enterprise Linux portfolio to the region. Shashank’s role includes partnering with the regional Sales organizations to drive initiatives that stimulate product line business growth. In addition, he acts as the geography Business Unit spokesperson with customers, Press and Analysts, supporting marketing activities in the region, assisting in maintaining customer relationships and providing high-level sales support.
